This was a tough one.
And you've learned a lot of things no matter what, whether you succeeded or not.
And that's what matters.
If you succeeded, remember that what you will see now may be different from your solution, since ours
is not the only one possible.
As long as your program works, that is fine.
Come with us to the code and let's design our number.
Guessing game.
Let's program a game between you and me.
This is what I like the most.
So let's go inside our project the day before.
We have to create here a file that is going to serve us to have the game and that I will call guess
the number dot p and now we can start the code.
So let's close here and let's start by first importing from the random library where we're going to
import rand.
INT is the only thing we're going to need here.
So we're going to need to import the whole library.
Then we need to define the variables.
And I think in this game the most important variables are guess which is the variable that's going to
keep track of how many attempts the user has made, starting from zero.
Then we're going to have another variable which is going to be called secret number, and it is the
one that is going to store the number that the computer has thought of.
Therefore, the value that this variable is going to have has to be a random value.
And here random comes into play.
Which will choose a number between one and 100.
Then we will see if it is too much or too little.
Maybe eight attempts is too little for so many numbers.
We will see that with the dynamics.
A third variable will be estimation.
And here I want to store what the users say when we tries to guess so we can compare it with the secret
number.
This variable will start with its value equal to zero.
And finally, a fourth variable where we will store the name of the user.
And this is where the game will begin, because in name I'm going to store an input and this input is
going to ask the user to tell me your name, colon space.
And here the user is going to tell us who he is.
Then I can give him the command along with his name.
We're going to print a little string that is going to say, okay.
And his name, comma.
And it says, I have thought of a number between one and 100.
And here we could make a line break so that the line below it says you have eight guesses to guess.
Just a funny way to say it.
And here we're not going to ask the user to start guessing yet because we're going to leave that for
the while loop where we're going to place the dynamics of the game.
Here.
We just throw away what this game is about.
And here comes the loop then, which is going to be a while.
Why a while and not a four?
Because the while loop is repeated as many times as necessary according to the dynamics of the game.
In this case, as many times as attempts we have.
So we need a loop that stops once either the eight tries elapse or when the user guesses, and the while
will be fine.
So we're going to say then while the value of guess is lower than eight, which is the total we've allowed
the user to have before the game is over.
What are we going to do here?
Well, we're going to rewrite estimated to be equal to an input from the user.
And this input is going to contain what the user answers when we ask what is the number?
Question mark, colon space and this is going to be stored in estimated.
But keep in mind that what's going to be stored here is a string and I want to have an integer because
I need to make numeric comparisons to see if the user has guessed right.
So we're going to do it with a casting here and we're going to put everything that the user enters inside
and int.
And what calculations do we need to do now?
So we're going to evaluate whether the number is greater than less than or equal to the secret number
that the program has thought of before the loop started.
Also, we need to make the guess counter.
Add one more number because we are already inside the first guess.
So guess is now going to be plus equal one.
It means that it is going to add one to whatever it already has.
Now let's start with the if logics.
That is, we start asking ourselves if the estimation is, for example, lower than the secret number.
In that case, we have to give the user more information.
We have to say, my number is higher, and we have to look at another possibility that the user has
given an estimate that is actually higher than the secret number.
Elif This is the case.
Estimation is higher than the secret number.
The message will be similar but different.
My number is lower because we have thrown a higher number than that one.
And a third possibility is that we got it right.
So the else and we don't need to write any logic because the only possibility here is the number is
equal to the second one, then colon.
And we need to print a sincere congratulations.
So we're going to put congratulations and his name.
I'm going to take advantage that we have at stored exclamation point.
And here we're going to let him know how many guesses it took him.
So we'll say you have guessed in we call the variable guess, which is the one that contains that information
and we complete with the word attempts to close the sense of the sentence here.
We have already arrived at the different points of the program then in these two previous if an ELIF
because what it does after printing is to restart the loop as long as we are still within the eight
attempts.
But in this case, we don't want it to start the loop again and ask again what the number is.
We wanted to exit the loop, so we're going to put a brake keyword.
If you remember, this word escapes the actual iteration and also the loop in general.
So we're out of here.
We can go back to the initial line of the script and we're going to put a final if, because at this
point of the code, we're in a situation where we could have come out of the loop for two reasons.
A because we guess the number and we won in this case, the code is over.
And B, because we ran out of guesses and we lost.
And the code will still need to let us know.
Then we need this last F to see if we still need to inform the user that he or she has lost the game.
So we're learn to ask if the actual value of the estimation at the end of the loop is different than
the secret number.
Then we're going to print a little string saying, Sorry, we've run out of attempts.
The secret number was and here we make a call to disclose the secret number.
With this, we have the program ready.
So let's see if we've made any mistakes or is there something to correct or improve?
So we're going to execute it.
Going to run, run.
And we choose.
Guess the number.
Well, tell me your name.
My name is Ferry.
Well, Ferry, I've thought of a number between one and 100.
You have eight guesses to guess.
Let's see.
My strategy is to go with to the middle in order to shorten the options.
I will try then.
50.
My number is lower.
What's the number?
Well, let's go to 25.
Always the middle.
My number is lower.
What about 17?
Wow.
It's even lower.
Let's go with ten.
There it is.
Now I have to go higher.
14?
Nope.
Then I have three possibilities.
It's 11, 12 or 13.
Let's go to the middle one.
12.
Congratulations, Freddy.
You have guessed in six attempts.
Pretty close, but I made it.
So let's try one more run.
But this time I'm going to lose on purpose to see if it works out well.
I have to test everything.
So I'm going to pick a number and I'm going to always put the same number to make sure I don't win by
any chance.
And here then we did one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight tries.
And he said, I didn't guess.
Sorry.
You're run out of temps.
The secret number was 80.
Well, what bad look?
The good look is that I had a phenomenal day, a day where I learned a lot of things and where I integrated
all that into a program that is now a real game.
People can actually play.
Yes, I know it lacks aesthetics and it lacks graphical user interface.
It lacks sounds.
It lacks many other things that make it fun.
But if you were in the eighties, this game would be a boom and you'd be a millionaire.
Well, it's been an awesome day, and I'm looking forward to the relaxing moment to finish the day and
celebrate the conquest.
See you in the next lecture.